Jesus’ teaching reached the heart.
Luke 24:32 records the reaction
of some of his disciples
following a teaching session:
“Were not our hearts burning within us
“as he was speaking to us on the road,
as he was fully opening up
the Scriptures to us?”
When we teach, how can we reach the heart?
We can (1) use rhetorical questions
to help our listeners think,
(2) urge listeners
to examine why they perform good works,
and (3) highlight
how Bible principles and commands
reflect God’s qualities and his love for us.
In the following example, does the speaker
help the audience to make a self-examination?
What’s one thing
you must do to gain everlasting life?
At Matthew 19:21,
Jesus said to a rich young ruler:
“Go sell your belongings
and give to the poor,
“and you will have treasure in heaven;
and come be my follower.”
Clearly, you must
cut out of your life anything
that interferes with your worship of Jehovah.
Were the words accurate?
Yes.
Were you moved from the heart?
Probably not.
Although the speaker
told us what we needed to do,
he didn’t help us
to examine our own feelings on the matter.
Let’s watch him try again.
What’s one thing
we must do to gain everlasting life?
At Matthew 19:21, we find Jesus’ response
to this question
as posed by a rich young ruler:
“Go sell your belongings
and give to the poor,
“and you will have treasure in heaven;
and come be my follower.”
Although this man had kept the commandments
of the Mosaic Law since his youth,
Jesus detected that something was missing.
Each of us does well to ask himself:
‘What might Jesus detect about me?
‘Although Jehovah doesn’t expect me
to part with all of my belongings,
‘is there anything in my life
that interferes with my worship?
‘Does my job prevent me
from attending congregation meetings?
‘Do I catch myself
thinking about material things
‘when I’m engaged in sacred service?
‘Material things may be valuable,
but are they worth more
than my everlasting life?’
Well done!
The rhetorical questions
helped us to examine ourselves.
Also, instead of using
the personal pronoun “you,”
the speaker showed respect
for his audience by including himself
as one who needs to apply
the counsel of God’s Word.
In order to reach the heart,
we must also appeal to good motives.
In other words, we should motivate
our audience to act
because they love Jehovah,
fellow humans, and Bible teachings.
Does the Bible teacher do that
in the following demonstration?
The question asks:
“What do we need to avoid?”
Bad habits, like smoking
and abusing alcohol and drugs.
That’s right,
but I noticed you’re still smoking.
So, what do you need to do?
I know I need to quit, but it’s not easy.
Well, we’ve been studying for over a year.
How much more time do you need?
How much time do you think
is left before the end comes?
Did the teacher appeal to proper motives?
No.
Instead, he tried to pressure
and shame the student.
Let’s watch a better way to motivate.
The question asks:
“What do we need to avoid?”
Bad habits, like smoking
and abusing alcohol and drugs.
That’s right.
Of course, it’s not always easy
to give up bad habits.
But what can be a powerful motivator?
Well, I’ve got to stop smoking
so I won’t be destroyed at Armageddon.
Actually, there’s a stronger motivation.
Why do you get up early
every day to go to work?
To provide for my family.
I do it because I love them.
Exactly!
In the same way, strong love for Jehovah
can help you to break habits
in order to please him.
And what does he provide
that can help you
win the battle against smoking?
Holy spirit?
Yes.
Anytime you have the urge to smoke,
you can freely call on Jehovah
for his help to resist.
Let’s now consider five Bible principles
that will help you further.
Not only did the teacher
appeal to good motives
but he also helped the student
to think about how he could please Jehovah.
When we do our best
to reach the heart of our listeners,
we’ll be appealing
to the best of motives: love for God.
Love for Jehovah will move them
to draw close to him and become his friends.
It will motivate them to praise him,
not just for a short time
but for all eternity!